# Agriculture
Factors affecting crop yields in Africa

Agriculture is the most comprehensive word used to denote the many ways in which crops plants and domestic animals sustain the global population by providing food and other products. The English word agriculture is derived from Latin ‘agricultura’ (ager and colo) which means field or land tillage.
Agriculture is a backbone of most economies in the Eastern and Southern Africa Region. More than 70% of the household in the rural area depend on agriculture. In a larger part of Africa, agriculture is a major employer at local and national scale except for countries in Arab North Africa and South Africa. Agriculture provides employment to more than 60% of the total population and has a contribution to GDP also (about 17%).
Agriculture forms the basis for food security and hence it is important. Agriculture is the field that enables the farmers to grow ideal crops in accordance with the environmental balance. Farming depends on various factors like climate and economic factors like temperature, irrigation, cultivation, soil, rain fall, pesticide and fertilizers. Historical information regarding crop yield provides major input for companies engaged in this domain.
Agriculture in Africa is still evolving with some areas advancing in the utilization of mechanized farming while others are still utilizing manual labor. More significantly, mechanization has enormously increased farm efficiency and productivity. The Oxford English Dictionary (1971) defines agriculture very broadly as “The science and art of cultivating the soil, including the allied pursuits of gathering in the crops and rearing live stock.

The agricultural yield is primarily depending on weather conditions. Climate has a very strong influence on farming, which is considered to be the human activity that is most dependent on climate variations. Various seasonal, economic and biological factors influence the crop production but unpredictable changes in these factors lead to a great loss to farmers. In this context, the farmers necessarily require a timely advice to predict the future crop productivity and an analysis is to be made in order to help the farmers to maximize the crop production in their crops. Improvements in crop yields have been essential to feed a growing population, while reducing the environmental impact of food production at the same time. Crop yields might seem far from being one of the world’s largest problems.
Yield prediction is a very important agricultural problem. In the earlier period, yield prediction was performing by considering farmer’s experience on particular field and crop.
Technology penetration into agriculture field has led to automation of the activities like yield estimation, crop health monitoring etc. Crop yield prediction helps the farmers in various ways by providing the record of previous crop yield. Data mining techniques are used and evaluated in agriculture for estimating the future years crop production. With the advent of data mining, crop yield can be predicted by deriving useful insights from these agricultural data that aids farmers to decide on the crop they would like to plant for the forthcoming year leading to maximum profit. Half of the world’s habitable land is used for agriculture.
Global
